# Trieson

A Trie class implemented in python, with added rebellious features (namely
weighted random traversal).

*Near stable release, but still under final testing and development.*

## Usage

Load the `Trieson` package:

`from Trieson import Trieson`

Instantiate:

`trie = Trieson() # by default will create additional strings - see combos.py`

Add strings:

`trie.add(['apple', 'apiary', 'apply', 'apricot'])`

Generate a random word:

`random_word = trie.make()`

Have lots of fun!

## Methods

### `Trieson([proc], [proc_args], [proc_kwargs]) (constructor)`

The `proc` parameter is for an optional preprocessing function that will be
applied to any string added to the trie. By default it will create a list of
all combinations of sequential letters in the string to the end of the string.
For example: `'apple'` will become `['apple', 'pple', 'ple', 'le']`.

In order to ensure that the generating algorithm will only start at the
beginning of complete words (rather than the substrings generated by the `proc`
function), words can be prefixed with a special character to designate word
beginnings. For example: prepending `'^'` to `'apple'` will add `['^apple',
'apple', 'pple', 'ple', 'le']`, which allows the `'^'` prefix to always select
the start of the original word. See `make()` method documentation, below.

### `add(string, [data], [proc], [proc_args], [proc_kwargs])`

Adds the string `string` to the trie, applying `proc` to the string before
adding. The `data` parameter supplies any data to attach to the final character
in the string and a true value specifies that this character ends a string.

The `proc_args` and `proc_kwargs` parameters allow passing of arguments to the
`proc` function when it is called. In the default case passing `{'min': 3}` to
`proc_kwargs` will change the default behavior of proc to leave a minimum
string length of 3.

### `has_prefix(prefix)`

Check for any sequential sequence of characters in the trie. For example, if
'apple' was added to the trie (with no preprocessing), has_prefix('ap') and
has_prefix('app') would return True, but has_prefix('apo') would return False.

### `has(string)`

Check if the full string `string` is in trie. This will only return True if the
final character in `string` has a True-equivalent `data` value in the trie.

### `get(string)`

Gets the `data` value associated with the final character in `string`.

### `substrings([prefix], [limit])`

Gets `limit` or all substrings starting after final character of `prefix` to
a terminating character (one that has a True-equivalent `data` value).

### `match(string, [limit])`

Gets `limit` or all possible word matches for prefix `string`. For example, if
'apple', 'apiary', and 'aptitude' were added to the trie, match('ap') would
return all three items, and match('app'), would return 'apple'.

### `make([prefix], [weight], [lookahead], **kwargs)`

The fun part. Makes a random word starting at end of `prefix` weighting the
character choices by the number of times they appeared after the previous
letter when "training" the trie. Can limit size of generated word with the
`limit` parameter.

Internally, each character in the trie keeps track of the number of times it
has been added to it's parent. For example, adding 'apple' and 'apiary' would
have a 2 count for the first and second characters, 'a' and 'p', and a 1 count
for the third character, 'p' in 'apple' and 'i' in 'apiary'. If I then added
'acorn', and the randomizer picked an 'a' as the first letter (there's no other
option), picking a 'p' as the second character would be twice as likely as
a 'c', since second-character 'p' has a 2-count and second-character 'c' has
a 1-count.

#### `make()` positional parameters

- `prefix [str]`: An optional prefix designating where to start generating
    characters. The prefix will begin the generated word. An empty prefix means
    to start generating at the root of the trie. If all added words are
    prefixed with a character, such as `^`, one can easily generate words
    starting at the first character of any added word by passing `'^'` as the
    `prefix`; useful when the trie is adding word substrings in addition to
    whole words.

- `weight [float]`: An optional multiplier for the character weights. Defaults
    to 1 for full weighting. Set to 0 for all characters equal weights.

- `lookahead [int]`: An optional number of characters to look at when
    generating the next character. A 0 here uses all of the generated
    characters. For example, if the algorithm has generated 'hell' with
    a lookahead of 2, the next round of search will start searching at the last
    2 letters, or 'll' here, to potentially generate 'hello'. With a lookahead
    of 0 in this example, the algorithm will use the full 'hell' to generate
    the next character. A smaller lookahead (other than 0) will provide more
    randomness, and a lookahead of 0 will only find full words as originally
    added to the trie (including the combinations generated when adding).

#### `make()` keyword-only parameters

- `max_len [int]`: Maximum word length. Set to 0 to ignore. Default `0`.

- `min_len [int]`: Minimum word length. Set to 0 to ignore. Default `0`.

- `strict [bool]`: Whether to be strict with word endings. Strict mode will
    return an empty string if the algorithm fails to generate a word within the
    parameters specified. If `fail_str` is specified, strict mode will return
    the failed generated string prefixed with `fail_str`. Default is `True`.

- `fail_str [str]`: The string prefix on a generation failure when `strict` is
    `True`. Default is `''`.

- `end_char [str]`: An optional character that will be interpreted by the
    algorithm as a terminating character. It will be treated the same as a word
    ending. Default `''`.

### `depth()`

Returns the depth of the tree, i.e. the longest sequence of characters.

## License

MIT Public License. See `license.txt` for details.
